# 10x is Easier than 10%

I once asked my friend, who is also a software engineer, if he thought he could get his company’s code to run 10x faster. He said no, and I didn’t blame him. In fact, I asked him because I was pretty sure he would say no. It’s hard to make things 10x better. We don’t often think of things in those terms. We typically think of things in terms of percent changes. That’s why I asked him if he could make his code 10% faster. He said yes.

But here’s the thing. The same amount of work that goes into making something 10% better can often be used to make it 10x better. This is why I think it’s important to think in terms of 10x improvements instead of 10% improvements. 10% improvements are the norm, and if you’re like me, you’ll usually get the job done. But 10x improvements are the exceptions, and they require extraordinary effort. They’re the only improvements that really matter.

Larry Page, the co-founder of Google, has long been a proponent of the 10x improvement philosophy. When he was a student at Stanford, he built a search engine called BackRub. It used backlinks to determine the importance of web pages. It was 10x better than the existing search engines, which were using keywords. He got the opportunity to meet with a famous venture capitalist named John Doerr. He was young and inexperienced, and he was nervous. He was only going to have one chance to pitch his idea to Doerr. He wanted to do it right. He thought he could get him to invest in his company, but he also wanted to get him to invest in his philosophy. So he decided to give him the best 10x pitch he could think of. He went to a pizza restaurant and ordered 10 pizzas. He got 10 boxes and filled them with 10 pizzas, which he delivered to Doerr’s office. When Doerr opened the first box, he found a note that said “We’re going to be 10x better than the competition.” Then he opened the second box. It had a note that said “We’re going to be 10x better than the competition.” He opened the third box. It had a note that said “We’re going to be 10x better than the competition.” This went on for 10 boxes until Doerr opened the last box. It had a note that said “We’re going to be 10x better than the competition.” This is how Larry Page got his first venture capital investment from John Doerr. He wanted to invest in Google, but he also wanted to invest in Page’s philosophy. It’s a good philosophy. I think it’s a philosophy worth sharing.

Peter Thiel is another guy who has made the case for the 10x improvement philosophy. He was one of the first investors in Facebook. He was also one of the first investors in PayPal. He was the co-founder of both companies. He knows a thing or two about building successful technology companies. In his book Zero to One, he says “The most contrarian thing of all is not to oppose the crowd but to think for yourself.” I think it’s a contrarian thing to build 10x better technology than the competition, and I think it’s a good thing to do. The best thing about building 10x better technology than the competition is that it’s a lot easier than building 10% better technology than the competition. It’s easier because it’s easier to think of things in terms of 10x improvements than it is to think of things in terms of 10% improvements. I would also argue that it’s easier because it’s easier to make a 10x improvement than a 10% improvement. I think it’s easier to make a 10x improvement because it’s easier to think of things in terms of 10x improvements.

Jeff Bezos is another guy who has made the case for the 10x improvement philosophy. When he started Amazon, he didn’t want to build a better bookstore. He wanted to build the best bookstore. He didn’t want to build a better online bookstore. He wanted to build the best online bookstore. He wanted to build a 10x better online bookstore than the existing online bookstores. He wanted to build the 10x better online bookstore than the existing online bookstores. He did. He built the best online bookstore, and he built it in a way that was 10x better than the competition. This is how he built Amazon. He built it by building a 10x better online bookstore than the competition.

There’s a lesson to be learned from Larry Page, Peter Thiel, and Jeff Bezos. I think it’s a good lesson. I think it’s a lesson worth sharing. I think it’s a lesson worth learning. I think it’s a lesson worth applying. The next time you’re about to make something 10% better, I hope you’ll stop and ask yourself whether you can make it 10x better. If you can, I hope you will.
