# Business Counsel

About a year ago, I launched Life Advice. Since then, I have had dozens of calls with mostly young and ambitious people looking for life advice. They are the kinds of conversations that I really enjoy, and the general feedback from those who have booked these calls is that they have been very useful.

In a continued effort to build a sustainable life around doing things I enjoy, and being useful, I am now pleased to announce the launch of Business Counsel. Just as I enjoy talking through people’s problems and helping them navigate life, I very much enjoy discussing people’s businesses and trying to find ways to make them better.

As with Life Advice , it is hard to convince you in advance how or that I can be useful. What I can say is that I am confident that I can help people in life, and in the case of Business Counsel , I am confident that I can help people with their businesses. Moreover, I am confident that 1 hour spent speaking with me on a Life Advice call is well worth the $150 I am currently charging for it, and the 1 hour spent speaking with me on a Business Counsel call is well worth $999, expensable to the business.

I have a background in investment banking (Technology M&A), was Balaji Srinivasan’s right hand man for a couple of years, and have interviewed more than 100 of the greatest entrepreneurs in the world on my podcast, but these credentials are not what make my perspective valuable and useful. What makes my perspective valuable and useful is the combination of everything I have ever done, how I think, and who I am.

This clip from a recent interview with legendary music producer Rick Rubin by 60 Minutes’ Anderson Cooper resonated with me in relation to how I feel about how I can be helpful.

> RR: I have no technical ability. And I know nothing about music.
> 
> AC: (Laughs) You must know something.
> 
> RR: Well I know what I like and what I don’t like. And I’m decisive about what I like and what I don’t like.
> 
> AC: So what are you being paid for?
> 
> RR: The confidence that I have in my taste and my ability to express what I feel has proven helpful for artists.

In a business context, I have a lot of confidence in my sense and my ability to express what I feel has proven helpful for entrepreneurs. 

So, if you think I may be able to help you with your business, it would make my week if you would book a Business Counsel call here, or share this with a friend: business-counsel.xyz

If you don’t find the call worthwhile, I will refund you the full amount paid.

As always, thank you for your trust and support. I greatly appreciate it.